84
VOYAGES AND DISCOVERIES, 1603–1649.
[1610.
selected to lead this daring enterprise. He fitted out a little vessel 
of eighty tons, and weighed anchor at Greenwich on May 1st, 1607. 
He had with him only ten men, and his own little son John. 
Hudson first sighted the east coast of Greenland in 73
3 N. on 
the 22nd of June, and then examined the edge of the ice until he 
sighted the N.W. cape of Spitzbergen, and named it Hakluyt 
Headland. He made a careful examination of the western coast 
of Spitzbergen, and on his way home discovered the island since 
called Jan Mayen, which he named “ Hudson’s Tutches.”
In 1608 Hudson fitted out a second expedition to explore the 
sea between Spitzbergen and Novaya Zenlya. He coasted along 
the edge of the ice, making more than one resolute effort to pene­
trate into it, until he sighted Novaya Zemlya on the 25th of June. 
The practical consequence of these ably conducted exploring voyages 
was the establishment of a rich and prosperous Spitzbergen fishery, 
which continued to flourish for two centuries. In the four succeeding 
years, the Museovy Company sent Captain Jonas Poole on voyages 
to kill morses and whales, and he was succeeded by Fotherby and 
Baffin, whose work in the Spitzbergen seas extended over the years 
from 1613–1615. Subsequently Captain Edge was the leading spirit 
in these voyages, and between the years 1607 and 1622 English 
seamen completed the delineation of the Spitzbergen group, while 
enriching their employers with full cargoes procured by facing 
dangers and hardships of a kind of which they had had no previous 
experience. The fleets in the northern seas and on the Newfoundland 
land banks formed admirable nurseries for our Navy.
Hudson’s last voyage was undertaken to search for a passage 
by the north-west, by a strait which is marked on the globe of 
Molyneux as the “ Furious Overall,” and of which Hudson had also 
heard from Captain Waymouth. The funds were supplied by Sir 
Thomas Smith, Sir Dudley Digges, and Sir John Wolstenholme, 
merchant princes, whose patriotic munificence is deserving of all 
praise. The Discovery, of 55 tons, was equipped, and Henry 
Hudson sailed from the Thames on April 22nd, 1610, with his young 
son John and a crew of doubtful character, though including some 
good men and true. Passing the “ Furious Overall,” as placed by 
Davis on the globe of Molyneux, and down the ice-encumbered 
strait, Hudson entered the great inland sea which was, from thence­
forward, to bear his name. He named the island on the south side 
of the entrance to Hudson’s Bay, where he observed that myriads
